cards on Saturday night, and they prided
themselves on eating my son a cake on Saturday. Of
course butter was so hard to gather, but my mother
had given me a recipe for an eggless, butterless,
milkless cake. And the Chinaman's cook told the
boys out at the hotel that he couldn't make cake
because he didn't have any butter or eggs. And they
said, well, senor makes a cake with no butter and no
eggs. And the Chinaman said, what is that? And the
boys said it over again to him. He said, es mentira.
eggless,
butterless,
and milkless
cake that you made during the war, or like fruit
cake. But they always called it my Mantera cake. We
had, I guess, a crew about, I guess, an office. He
had an assistant superintendent and an assayer
and engineer, five or six men who were all either
Americans or English. And then they I think they
had men in the
right over the miners
who thought it was a Mexican foreman. So they
thought
they were operating it really under Mexican
control, because they didn't have a Mexican
foreman. Did any of the other engineers bring
their wives at a later time? Well, you see, this was
sort of an unsettled time down there. There was one
other couple, and then an engineer and his wife, he
was a Purdue University man, and his wife came down
to install a power plant down at the railroad
station, and they stayed with us for six or eight
months. And I think there was one other couple at
one time, but they sort of came and went. They were
only there for a short
period. They
were... It was a... an interesting life, but I'm
sorry I don't have more of the details. Mine is sort
of a rambling. It's been a very interesting story,
and you've had a lot of interesting details. I
certainly do appreciate it. It's been a pleasure
talking with you. name and uh when you were born and
and just i forgot to ask you well that's that's
rather personal oh well you don't have to say when
you were born just no i don't mind i was born in i was
born in salem indiana and my maiden name was jones
kemp k-e-m-p camp and and i um that was in december
12 1887. wait a minute Yes, 1887, so I'm 85. And then
when I was in college, my family moved to
California, so I was married in California. I
married a man from Michigan who was living in
California at the time. And then after he
graduated from Stanford, of course, he went to the
mining business and carried me down there. Did he
ever have any occasion to talk about or to know
Hoover? Yes, he had very, he always said that his
middle name was Hoover. He, when Mr. Adams was a, in
college, Mr. Hoover, Mr. and Ms. Hoover came there
to address the geology club with which Mr. Adams
was president. So he met them personally and
she'll pick them over then. them over the campus
and all. Always a very sweet recollection of his
visit with the Hoovers. And then when, later, when
we went to New York and Mr. Hoover was living at the
Waldorf, the Strattons called on him. And that was
one of the highlights of his life. Mr. Hoover never
forgot old acquaintances. Of course, he knew all
the old Stanford props and all, so he had a great
deal to talk over.
Nowadays tape recorders work fine.
Yeah, one of the great values is, from the
standpoint of linguistics and, of course, the
recording of the story as it's told by the person
involved.